# OECD Migration Data Set ([Link to Shiny Application](https://alyssahall.shinyapps.io/oecd_international_migration/))
### Creator Statement:
For my final project I was interested in understanding how the number inflowing migrants compares to the number of people who actually obtain citizenship. I first wanted to understand naturalization, acquisition of citizenship, and how the process has evolved. Granting citizenship itself has become a regular part of any given state. “With the increasing acceptance of immigration as a permanent phenomenon, citizenship attribution has been instrumentalised as a crucial part of integration policies aimed at the societal incorporation of immigrants” (de Groot & Vink 714). States recognized the importance of obtaining national citizenship and created avenues for migrants to do just that, though the process is not without limitations. Along with the legal benefits of naturalization, Laurentsyeva and Venturini explain its impact on social integration, where a person who has gained status as a naturalized citizen is more likely to integrate into a society and follow social norms (289). It seemed to me that there would be an incentive for a state to provide reasonable accommodation to incoming migrants seeking naturalization, but I was unsure if this was statistically reflected. 

To answer this I used the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s International Migration Database; however, it left me with more questions than answers. I decided the best way to extract meaningful results was to create a visual representation of the data. Using R Studio, I manipulated the data set to focus solely on the inflow of migrants and the number of migrants who received naturalization (the original dataset included a number of other variables). There were two sets of information I was interested in visualizing. First, the comparison of inflow of migrants and the number of migrants who acquired citizenship in a given year, and second, the total comparison of those two over a span of 16 years. The first is represented by a comparative bar chart that takes in a user input to choose the destination country and year, and then returns the numbers from the top 24 countries of origin. The second plots the totals based on the destination country inputted by the user.

The results were interesting- as you click through different countries and years, you can see the general increase in migration in a number of countries. For the most part, the number of migrants entering the destination country significantly outweighs the number of those acquiring citizenship.There are also instances where the opposite is true. The most interesting case is Italy, because you can really see the slow allocation of naturalization over a span of 10 years, where the initial amount of migrants being granted that status was little to none. Overall, I am really happy with the way the application turned out, and would be interested in looking into explaining the peaks and drops shown by the graphs given more time.
